[Back](/)

### Pig

The year is 1492. Under the aegis of Spanish monarchs Ferdinand II and Isabella I,the Italian explorer Christopher Columbus would set off to the coast of the new world. With his three mighty ships, The Pinta, The Niña, and The Santa María, Columbus lands on the sandy beaches of the Caribbean. Aboard The Santa Maria lay eight ferocious beasts: built of 191 kilograms of pure muscle, armored with its near carbon fiber-like skin, and equipped with four ten-centimeter ivory cutters that extend from the brutes' canines (Miller). An odor of ammonia disseminates from the cargo bay. The beast departs from the ship, slowly tip-toeing its parted hoofs as it curiously roots across the unfamiliar terrain. However, no foreign land could tame these mighty beasts. Within months this drift would be sewn into an army in the tens of hundreds. In squadrons of eight, these beasts would scavenge the Americas, terrorizing homes, ravaging forests, and wallowing in the muck of their victims. No one is a match for the mighty pig.

Among Columbus' domesticated animals, none have become as feral or have adapted as well as the pig. Unlike cows, horses, sheep, and goats, the pig possesses an unmatched level of self-sufficiency. While herbivores like cattle and sheep required grass fields to survive, pigs are omnivorous, meaning they could eat almost anything, from plants to meat to animal excrement (Mizelle). The pig's unlimited diet allows them to thrive in various environments, from boreal taigas in Siberia to the deserts of Arizona (Wild Boar, Wikipedia).

Additionally, pigs are quick to reproduce. A sow (female pig) can reach sexual maturity at around 3-12 months and enters estrus every 18-24 days. During estrus, the sow presents herself to her fellow boars that she is ready to mate; once successfully conceiving, the sow enters gestation from around 112-120 days, where she may deliver up to ten piglets at a time (Pig, Wikipedia). With such a short reproductive cycle, small drifts (groups of pigs) can spawn tens of hundreds of pigs in a few months. However, with their ability to rapidly adapt and reproduce, pigs became excellent assets to New World colonizers (Miller); pork could be salted and stored almost indefinitely, and products like soaps and lantern oil consisted of lard. As a result, in 1539, Spanish colonizers like Hernando De Soto would be one of the first to introduce domesticated pigs to North America (Miller).

However, because of their fast reproduction cycle, escaped pigs became invasive to the native population. As a result, wild pigs would root their way into states like Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Mississippi, and Texas (Miller). Being alien to the Americas, feral pigs have become destructive to the indigenous environment. Through rooting, pigs drive their barrel-shaped snout into the ground like a bulldozer and plow through crops, soil, forest floor, and golf green. Conservation Ecologist Tony DeNicole says, “Hogs are like a neutron bomb compared to a conventional bomb.” (Miller) A small sounder of hogs can render a newly planted field a barren wasteland.[^1]

[^1]: In 2020, the USDA estimated that six and nine million feral pigs roam the United States, causing more than $2.5 billion in agricultural damage annually (Miller)

Moreover, wild hogs pose a threat to native wildlife.

Due to their rotund size and tenacious hardiness, pigs have become dominant predators in the Americas. They prey on fawns and endangered salamanders, raid the clutches of ground-nesting birds and threatened sea turtles, and outcompete deer and wild turkeys for resources (Miller). However, on top of their natural dominance, pigs (both domestic and wild) are considered incredibly intelligent. Animal non-profit Mercy for Animals regards pigs as the fifth most intelligent animals ahead of dogs: “capable of playing video games with more focus and success than chimps!” With their keen intelligence, destructive nature, and incredible adaptability, wild pigs, are found to have very few predators. Consequently, it is up to humans to lead the fight against these invasive animals.

Humans and pork have shared a deep-rooted relationship for millenniums: pork, or domestic pig meat, has a history dating back to the 18th century to 19th century Eurasia (Giuffra). However, with the introduction of Asian boar into Europe, hybrid boar species would give way to the domestication of these animals. Archeological evidence suggests that people of Egypt and Mesopotamia adopted pig husbandry around 7000 B.C.E.; by 5000 B.C.E., pork would make up 15%-50% of animal consumption (Price). However, into the Bronze Age, wealthy regions in the Near East began prioritizing commodity-producing livestock such as cows, chickens, and sheep who could provide milk, eggs, and wool, unlike the pig (Price). However, with the pig’s omnivorous diet, they became a staple in rural-urban settings with their abundance of water and waste (Price). Despite this, the popularity of domestic pigs would only grow throughout the Eurasian continent.

As the domestic pigs' population expanded, their role in cultural cuisine increased: in 15th-century France, local guilds developed a method of curing meat known as charcuterie, giving birth to products like bacon, ham, and sausage (Pork, Wikipedia); in Brazil, the national dish known as Feijoada is said to have been created by plantation enslaved people who had scrapped together pig meat wasted by their masters such as ears, feet, and tail (Esposito); in China, both pigs and pork became symbols of fertility and prosperity; as a result, pork would become a staple in the Chinese diet (Gro Intelligence). Dishes such as Fen Zheng Rou (steamed pork ribs with rice flour), Suan Ni Bai Rou (sliced pork with garlic sauce), and Hong Shou Rou (red braised pork belly) are among the favorite dishes in the Jiangxi[^2] province. Additionally, pork dishes such as shāo zhū (roasted pig) have influenced other Southeastern countries, such as the Philippines, which had inherited the more famously known Spanish lechón.
[^2]: From an interview with Xiuyuan “Matt” Huang, a citizen of Ganzhou, Jiangxi China and a student at the University of Connecticut.

Lechón, or suckling pig, is one of the most popular dishes in the Philippines; some even consider lechón the Philippines' national dish (Bartilet). Among the Philippines lies three archipelagos: Luzon in the north, Mindanao in the south, and in between lie the Visayas. Along the Visayan islands lies the city of Cebu. Dubbed the "Queen City of the South," Cebu is known for its beautiful beaches, rich Filipino history, and, more notably, delicious lechón. In the Philippines, there exist two methods of making lechón Manilla lechón (Luzon lechón) and Cebu lechón (Visayan lechón). In Cebu lechón, a gutted piglet (a baby pig weight 18-20 kilos) -with its head intact- is stuffed from neck to belly with a combination of scallions, bay leaves, black peppercorn, garlic, salt, and tanglad (lemongrass). Then, a rod-sized skewer is wedged through the anus and out of the piglet's mouth. The piglet kabob is then mounted above a charcoal grill, where it slowly rotates for two hours; upon reaching its signature crispy texture, it is ready to be served. Comparatively, Manilla lechón foregoes the stuffing process and prepares a liver-based sauce concocted with vinegar, brown sugar, salt, pepper, mashed liver, breadcrumbs, garlic, and onion (Manalo).

However, not all cultures share this love of pork. Religions such as Judaism and Islam view pork as a taboo. In Judaism, kashrut, or dietary laws, are outlined in the Torah in Leviticus chapter 11. In Leviticus, the Lord speaks to Aaron: "And the pig, because it has a cloven hoof that is completely split, but will not regurgitate its cud; it is unclean for you." (New Jerusalem Bible, 11 Leviticus 7-8). From the English translation, regurgitate its cud refers to a process known as rumination. During rumination, ruminants, like cows, goats, and sheep, chew and ingest their food; however, upon ingestion, the ruminant's food is regurgitated back into the animal's mouth to resume chewing. This process allows mammals like cows to digest and acquires nutrients from plants. However, being omnivorous, pigs -like humans- do not possess this anatomy and therefore are considered unclean.
Moreover, a similar prohibition to pork is in the Qur'an. Although like kashrut, Muslims believe in haram, Arabic for the word "forbidden," haram prohibits Muslims from indulging in practices such as alcohol, gambling, pornography, and pork. The prohibition against pork is first seen in chapter two of the Qur'an, Surah Al-Baqarah, which says: "He has forbidden you only the carrion, blood, and the flesh of swine, and that which is slaughtered as a sacrifice for others than God. But if one is forced by necessity, without wilful disobedience, nor transgressing due limits, then there is no sin on him. Truly, Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful" (Qur'an, Surah Al-Baqarah 2:173). Here in Surah Al-Baqarah, carrion (decaying animal flesh), blood, and pork care are considered haram. Scientifically, carrion and animal blood can harbor dangerous bacteria and diseases such as Anthrax, Brucellosis, and Escherichia coli (CDC). Therefore by association, it can be inferred that Islam saw pigs as equal to diseases like anthrax and, therefore, dangerous. However, in 1974 anthropologists Marvin Harris refuted this belief in his book Cows, Pigs, Wars, and Witches: The Riddles of Culture by saying: "My [Harris] contention is that there is nothing exceptional about pork as a source of human disease. All domestic animals are potentially hazardous to human health." So if pigs were not inherently dangerous, it could be believed that pork prohibitions come from pigs' uncleanliness.
Additionally, archeological evidence has found domestic pigs in rural regions of the Near East during the Bronze Age (Price); therefore, it would be likely that people in ancient Israel and Mecca would get exposed to these swine. However, in rural areas, waste tends to be abundant, but being omnivorous, pigs can consume just about anything, from food scraps to feces. This association with rural regions and waste is likely the major contributor to the pigs' filthy reputation. While pigs can be a symbol of fertility or an omen of sin, to a few, they are a memento of friendship.
The year is 2015. It's your birthday. Sitting crisscross on the den floor, you unveil your first birthday present, a Dell laptop. Armed with a 17-inch display, 8GB of RAM, 32GB of memory, and running on the latest and greatest Windows 8 – it was immaculate. You make your way to the dining room table; your tiny legs swing up and down as you eagerly download Minecraft version 1.8.7. You spawn before a small oak tree; with your bare fists, you break down the tree into four wooden blocks; with your wood, you craft sixteen wooden planks, then into four sticks and one crafting table, where you construct your first sword; you venture off into the forest, sword in hand you go on an onslaught; killing cows, sheep, and chickens your inventory fills with beef, leather, mutton, wool, raw chicken, feathers, and the occasional egg; as you continue into the forest a pink figure catches your eyes – a pig; you approach the wild pig carefully, with its head facing you, you raise your weathered sword to deliver a killing blow; as you prepare to swing your blade, you and the beast lock eyes; you hesitate; as you stare down the pig it relieves a silent _oink_; a wave of guilt floods your twelve-year-old heart; you slash the pig anyway – it lives; unbeknownst to you, the Minecraft pig is tenaciously hardy; the pig jumps with a pitiful screech as it skitters away in zigzags; you chase after the hog only to find it peacefully standing idol as if it had not been attacked – you cannot kill it; unofficially, you name him Jerry; leaving him to his forest you explore the rest of the world.

Jerry would be the beginning of my fondness for the Minecraft pig. Although pigs are not programmed to function as pets like the wolf, ocelot, and parrot, I made attempts at making them companions: I gave them names, built them shelters, fed them carrots, and bred them with other pigs to give them friends. While these acts of service provide little to no benefit, they satisfied my twelve-year-old conscience. It is difficult for me to identify what draws me to the Minecraft pig; perhaps its blank facial expression and misaligned eyes give off a sense of innocence, but regardless I have always found a way of obtaining a pig in my Minecraft worlds. However, what has always compelled me about the pig is its role in the world of Minecraft.

Being the first animal mob introduced in alpha version 0.2, the pig would also be the simplest mob introduced, only dropping two to three pieces of pork chops when killed – this would be the first method for players to access food (Minecraft Wiki). However, since its inception, pigs would see little to no significant updates or features. Later in alpha versions 0.2 and 0.3, sheep, cows, and chickens would be added to the game (Minecraft Wiki). Unlike the pig, these new additions served dual purposes when killed: cows dropped raw beef and leather, which can be made into armor; chickens dropped raw chicken and feathers, which are used when crafting arrows; and while sheep initially only dropped wool, in version 1.8 mutton would be added into the game. As the number of mobs increased, so did their complexity. Version 1.8 introduced saddles, allowing the player to mount pigs as a method of transportation; however, version 2.0 introduced horses, mules, and donkeys, all of which severely outclassed the pig in speed and practicality (Minecraft Wiki). Horses can run nearly three times the speed of a mounted pig, while donkeys and mules move at a similar speed to the pig; players can equip them with additional storage compartments. With advanced animals that offer more resources like cows, practicality like donkeys, and more efficient transportation like horses, it is hard to see why such a negligible NPC (non-playable character) persists in the game. Despite this, the pig has stood the test of time regardless of the advanced mobs that follow. The pig will always be the first and the original, a true alpha in the game of Minecraft.

Concerning the Minecraft mob, the Minecraft pig can be an allegory for all pigs. While the pig may be a destructive brute, a filthy beast, and a delicious meal, the pig is also one of the world's most resilient creatures. Having survived countless eras, opposed by numerous peoples, and adapted to thousands of regions, we -as an ever-evolving society- can all learn a little tenacity from the mighty pig.
